Summarizes the analysis (5 points)

In this analysis, we look  at 15 schools primarily in relation to their number of students, budget, and math and reading test scores. As a key metric, I will be analyzing the percentage of students passing overall, meaning the amount of students who scored 70% or higher in both math and reading.  While students tend to have higher scores in reading, looking at the combined score ensures that we are looking at the most well rounded students to determine school success. An average for all schools is 65.17% passing. Using this as a standard, we can look at a few statistics to determine what makes a school successful. 


Draws two correct conclusions or comparisons from the calculations (10 points)

The easiest way to start is to look at each school's passing percentage. Simply sorting the schools by percentage shows us perhaps the most clear evidence of what could be effecting student scores: school type. The charter schools passing percentages range from 89.23% to 91.33% (the highest of all schools), while the district schools range from 52.99% (the lowest of all schools) to 54.64%. There is a huge gap in achievement between the two types of schools. If we take a quick look at our averages for district and charter schools, we can see that charter schools average about 2000 fewer students than district schools and have significantly smaller budgets. However, it doesn't seem that size alone is enough to explain the discrepancy in scores as the smallest charter school has the lowest passing rate for its category and the largest district school has the highest passing rate for its category. Math and reading scores are close to each other, but the overall passing rate is much lower for district schools. Looking at some other delineators does not show significant difference; a student's grade does not seem to have a significant affect on their score, and interestingly enough, schools with smaller budgets per student seem to be scoring higher than schools with larger budgets, which is not what we might assume. Ultimately, it seems that the single largest indicator for students success is school type, with students at charter schools being more likely to pass both math and reading tests with 70% or higher. 

I was interested in testing out some of the parameters we set to assume student success to see if I could find any issues with the dataset. The number 70% as a passing metric seemed slightly arbitrary as so I wanted to see what would happen if we changed the metric for passing. My assumption was that we might see less of a gap between two types of schools if we lowered the passing rate, so I checked what would happen if the passing rate was 65% instead of 70%. The result was very interesting - 100% of charter school students scored 65% or higher in both reading and math. That means that not a single student in over 12,000 scored under 65% on either test. This would be an incredible feat for so many different schools to accomplish and it would make me a little skeptical of how the tests were being scored. Further pushing of the passing percentage showed that at 55%, all students in the district schools would be passing as well, meaning that of the almost 27,000 district students, each one scored 55% or better on both math and reading as well. This would make me interested in learning more about the examinations that are being used to give the grades we are using. Percentages that do not go below a certain level seem suspect to me, and I would wonder if there were a minimum amount of points all students were starting with that would account for such a sharp drop-off in scores.